Design and layout

Instructions

Let's start our project! Goal of the project is to create a responsive site, as you might imagine. You choose the topic for the project. 

 

So, develop your own site. You can choose your perspective: Advertising, community, company (business), something else, perhaps some kind of combination?

 

Requirements for site: 

consistent and feasible layout.
Responsive menubar
Must have: Header, menu, content area, footer. These are minimum requirements for layout
Images
Some kind of form(s). Could be for example "contact" or "discussion" ... Just the appearance. You don't have to implement the functionality
At least three wisely chosen breakpoints 
Will be tested with Chrome developer tools
 

Design process and required documents:

Preliminary project plan including
Project files
Report

 

Now the actual assignment!

1.       Planning: Preliminary project plan including documents described above.

2.       Layout design as described next:

 

Let's start creating layout for your own site. You already have a plan for layout so now you start implementing your plan. Note that working process is as follows:

 

In this assignment you start by exploring how flexbox and grid might help you. Exploration is done by iterative development of a prototype of layout. Don't try make a final version...

Based on your trials and prototypes you are able to choose method for your final implementation.

But let's start!

 
As a starting point, check out exercise 16-1 from course book (by Robbins). Following that, create a navigation bar for your own site.
Create a prototype layout for your page using only flexbox. Analyze your prototype: what advantages/disadvantages you found when creating prototype?
Start creating your grid prototype: 
Edit your site's wireframe picture. Add measurements to different elements (width, height)
After that, create a grid prototype according to your wireframe
Analyze again: What is good and what is missing from your perspective?
 

 

Summary:

In this assignment, you will create a plan for your own site and in addition to that, you started implementation by exploring modern layouts.

 

You should return following documents:

Preliminary project plan
Layout design document
 

As we are talking about sketches and layouts, pictures are the best documentation for those!
